# Stock Price Prediction with LSTM
## Overview
This project utilizes `Long-Short Term Memory` (LSTM) networks to predict and analyze stock prices. The model is trained on historical stock data using the yfinance library, covering the previous 3 years up to the current date. The implementation is done in Google Colab, providing a seamless environment for data analysis and model development.

## Features
LSTM Model Implementation: Utilizes LSTM networks for capturing temporal dependencies in stock price data, allowing for more accurate predictions.

Data Preprocessing: Includes scripts for cleaning and preprocessing historical stock data to ensure optimal performance of the LSTM model.

Visualization: Jupyter notebooks and scripts for visualizing stock price trends, model performance, and other relevant metrics.

Prediction Evaluation: Evaluate the model's predictive performance using various metrics, facilitating a thorough assessment of its effectiveness.

## Prerequisites
To run the project, you'll need the following dependencies:

- Python 3.9 or above
- Jupyter Notebook
- Required Python packages ( install via pip install -r `requirements.txt` )

## Getting Started
1. Clone the repository:
 ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/lstm-stock-prediction.git
 ```
2. Open the Jupyter Notebook in Colab:
 ```bash
    # Navigate to the project directory
    cd lstm-stock-prediction
    jupyter notebook
  ```
3. Open the Stock_Prediction_LSTM.ipynb notebook.

## Configuration
### Stock Selection
- Replace `STOCK_LIST` with the ticker symbol of your preferred stock in the notebook.
### Training Parameters
- The model was trained for 80 epochs using the Huber loss function and the Adam optimizer.
### Performance Metrics
- The model's performance is evaluated using `Root Mean Squared Error` (RMSE), `Mean Absolute Error` (MAE), and `Mean Squared Error`(MSE).

## Usage
- Run the notebook cell by cell, following the instructions and comments provided.
- Monitor the training progress, visualize stock trends, and analyze the model's predictions.
## Results
- Review the performance metrics to assess the accuracy of the model's predictions.
- Explore visualizations and insights generated by the LSTM model.

## Contribution
Contributions are welcome! Whether you're interested in adding new features, improving model accuracy, or enhancing visualizations, feel free to open issues and pull requests.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.
